README.md, before:

# Signify - Sign and Verify

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/aperezdc/signify.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/aperezdc/signify)

OpenBSD tool to sign and verify signatures on files. This is a portable
version which uses [libbsd](http://libbsd.freedesktop.org/wiki/) (version
0.8 or newer is required).

See https://www.tedunangst.com/flak/post/signify for more information.

## License

Like [OpenBSD](https://www.openbsd.org) itself, Signify is distributed under
the terms of the [BSD license](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause).


## Building

### Dependencies

* GNU Make (any version above 3.70).
* C compiler. Both GCC and Clang are tested and supported.
* [libbsd](http://libbsd.freedesktop.org/wiki/) 0.8 or newer.

If your system does not provide a package for `libbsd`, it is possible to
download and compile it automatically, check the [build options](#options)
section for more details.


### Options

The following options can be passed to Make:

* `VERIFY_ONLY=1`

    Build only the verification code. Support for signing will not
    be available in the built `signify` binary. **Note that this is
    unsupported and compilation may not succeed.**

* `BOUNDS_CHECKING=1`

    Enables bounds-checking using `__attribute__((bounded))`. Your
    compiler must have support for this. Clang 3.4 is known to work.

* `BUNDLED_LIBBSD=1`

    Downloads and builds [libbsd](http://libbsd.freedesktop.org/wiki/),
    and links it statically into Signify. This can be used when the version
    installed in the system is an unsupported version, or when installing it
    in the system is not desirable.

    Enabling this option requires `wget`, `xz`, `tar`, and `gpg` installed on
    the build system. To avoid downloading files while building, there are
    two options:

    - `make BUNDLED_LIBBSD=1 libbsd-print-urls` will print the URLs
      of the files which need to be downloaded, one per line.
    - `make BUNDLED_LIBBSD=1 libbsd-download` will download the needed
      files.

    Pre-downloading the files will avoid hitting the network during build, but
    will still check the PGP signature of the `libbsd` tarball.

* `BUNDLED_LIBBSD_VERIFY_GPG=0`

    Disables checking the PGP signature of the bundled
    [libbsd](http://libbsd.freedesktop.org/wiki/) tarball. This avoids the
    need for GnuPG to be installed for building.

* `BUNDLED_LIBBSD_VERIFY_GPG=/path/to/gpg`

    Set the path to the `gpg` binary used for checking signatures. If not
    specified, the program is searched in the `$PATH`.

* `MUSL=1`

    Enable linking against the [Musl libc](http://www.musl-libc.org/). At the
    moment this needs a patched `libbsd`, so enabling this option will
    automatically set `BUNDLED_LIBBSD=1` and patch the locally-built version.

* `LTO=1`

    Perform Link-Time Optimizations. Both your compiler *and* linker
    must have support for this. Recent binutils and GCC/Clang are
    known to work.

* `PLEDGE=…`

    Choose among one of the alternative implementations of the
    [pledge(2)](https://man.openbsd.org/pledge.2)
    system call. For the moment the only supported values are:

    - `noop` *(default)*: Uses an implementation which does nothing
    - `waive` *(Linux-only)*: Uses
      [libwaive](https://github.com/dimkr/libwaive), which itself uses
      [seccomp filters](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seccomp).

    To use your own implementation, use an empty value, and pass
    the needed flags for linking its code. For example:
    `make PLEDGE='' EXTRA_LDFLAGS=my-pledge.o`.

* `BZERO=…`

    Choose which implementation of
    [`explicit_bzero(3)`](https://man.openbsd.org/bzero.3)
    to use. Supported values are:

    - `libc`: Relies on the system C library providing the function definition
      in the `<string.h>` header.
    - `bundled`: Use the portable implementation included with Signify's source
      code in `explicit_bzero.c`.

    The build system will try to detect whether the C library includes the
    function, and in most cases it will *not* be needed to specify this option.
    Providing a value for `BZERO` disables the automatic detection.

* `EXTRA_CFLAGS=…`, `EXTRA_LDFLAGS=…`

    Additional flags to be passed to the compiler and the linker,
    respectively.

For example, you can build a size-optimized version with:

    make EXTRA_CFLAGS='-Os -s' LTO=1


## Troubleshooting

* **Problem:** Undefined references to `clock_gettime`. <br>
  **Solution:** Your system has an old `glibc` version, you need to pass
  `LDLIBS=-lrt` to `make`.


## Other implementations

* [asignify](https://github.com/vstakhov/asignify) can read signatures
  generated by Signify (generating them is not yet implemented), and can be
  used as a library.
* [signify-rs](https://github.com/badboy/signify-rs), a re-implementation in Rust. It's fully compatible with the original implementation.

Commit message:

README: Mention installation instructions for Debian and Arch Linux
[ci skip]

README.md, after:

# Signify - Sign and Verify

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/aperezdc/signify.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/aperezdc/signify)

OpenBSD tool to sign and verify signatures on files. This is a portable
version which uses [libbsd](http://libbsd.freedesktop.org/wiki/) (version
0.8 or newer is required).

See https://www.tedunangst.com/flak/post/signify for more information.

## License

Like [OpenBSD](https://www.openbsd.org) itself, Signify is distributed under
the terms of the [BSD license](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause).


## Installation

Some GNU/Linux distributions have readily available packages in their
repositories. It is recommended to use these, unless you absolutely need to
build from source code:

-   Debian: `apt install signify-openbsd`
-   Arch Linux: `pacman -S signify`


## Building

### Dependencies

* GNU Make (any version above 3.70).
* C compiler. Both GCC and Clang are tested and supported.
* [libbsd](http://libbsd.freedesktop.org/wiki/) 0.8 or newer.

If your system does not provide a package for `libbsd`, it is possible to
download and compile it automatically, check the [build options](#options)
section for more details.


### Options

The following options can be passed to Make:

* `VERIFY_ONLY=1`

    Build only the verification code. Support for signing will not
    be available in the built `signify` binary. **Note that this is
    unsupported and compilation may not succeed.**

* `BOUNDS_CHECKING=1`

    Enables bounds-checking using `__attribute__((bounded))`. Your
    compiler must have support for this. Clang 3.4 is known to work.

* `BUNDLED_LIBBSD=1`

    Downloads and builds [libbsd](http://libbsd.freedesktop.org/wiki/),
    and links it statically into Signify. This can be used when the version
    installed in the system is an unsupported version, or when installing it
    in the system is not desirable.

    Enabling this option requires `wget`, `xz`, `tar`, and `gpg` installed on
    the build system. To avoid downloading files while building, there are
    two options:

    - `make BUNDLED_LIBBSD=1 libbsd-print-urls` will print the URLs
      of the files which need to be downloaded, one per line.
    - `make BUNDLED_LIBBSD=1 libbsd-download` will download the needed
      files.

    Pre-downloading the files will avoid hitting the network during build, but
    will still check the PGP signature of the `libbsd` tarball.

* `BUNDLED_LIBBSD_VERIFY_GPG=0`

    Disables checking the PGP signature of the bundled
    [libbsd](http://libbsd.freedesktop.org/wiki/) tarball. This avoids the
    need for GnuPG to be installed for building.

* `BUNDLED_LIBBSD_VERIFY_GPG=/path/to/gpg`

    Set the path to the `gpg` binary used for checking signatures. If not
    specified, the program is searched in the `$PATH`.

* `MUSL=1`

    Enable linking against the [Musl libc](http://www.musl-libc.org/). At the
    moment this needs a patched `libbsd`, so enabling this option will
    automatically set `BUNDLED_LIBBSD=1` and patch the locally-built version.

* `LTO=1`

    Perform Link-Time Optimizations. Both your compiler *and* linker
    must have support for this. Recent binutils and GCC/Clang are
    known to work.

* `PLEDGE=…`

    Choose among one of the alternative implementations of the
    [pledge(2)](https://man.openbsd.org/pledge.2)
    system call. For the moment the only supported values are:

    - `noop` *(default)*: Uses an implementation which does nothing
    - `waive` *(Linux-only)*: Uses
      [libwaive](https://github.com/dimkr/libwaive), which itself uses
      [seccomp filters](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seccomp).

    To use your own implementation, use an empty value, and pass
    the needed flags for linking its code. For example:
    `make PLEDGE='' EXTRA_LDFLAGS=my-pledge.o`.

* `BZERO=…`

    Choose which implementation of
    [`explicit_bzero(3)`](https://man.openbsd.org/bzero.3)
    to use. Supported values are:

    - `libc`: Relies on the system C library providing the function definition
      in the `<string.h>` header.
    - `bundled`: Use the portable implementation included with Signify's source
      code in `explicit_bzero.c`.

    The build system will try to detect whether the C library includes the
    function, and in most cases it will *not* be needed to specify this option.
    Providing a value for `BZERO` disables the automatic detection.

* `EXTRA_CFLAGS=…`, `EXTRA_LDFLAGS=…`

    Additional flags to be passed to the compiler and the linker,
    respectively.

For example, you can build a size-optimized version with:

    make EXTRA_CFLAGS='-Os -s' LTO=1


## Troubleshooting

* **Problem:** Undefined references to `clock_gettime`. <br>
  **Solution:** Your system has an old `glibc` version, you need to pass
  `LDLIBS=-lrt` to `make`.


## Other implementations

* [asignify](https://github.com/vstakhov/asignify) can read signatures
  generated by Signify (generating them is not yet implemented), and can be
  used as a library.
* [signify-rs](https://github.com/badboy/signify-rs), a re-implementation in Rust. It's fully compatible with the original implementation.
